.TH prez-pkglog 1 "July 2025" "prez-pkglog 0.5.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
prez-pkglog \- a local package installation and removal logger

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prez-pkglog
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBprez-pkglog\fR is a cross-distro/platform package-activity logger that records every install and removal event on your system. It supports multiple package managers and can monitor a downloads folder, writing an append-only history in both JSON and TOML.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup
Setup configuration and directories for a given scope.
.TP
.B status
Show current status and statistics for a given scope.
.TP
.B daemon
Start the monitoring daemon. For the user scope, this includes download monitoring.
.TP
.B export
Export the package log in the specified format (json or toml).
.TP
.B query
Query the package log with optional filters.
.TP
.B install <name> <manager>
Manually log a package installation.
.TP
.B remove <name> <manager>
Manually log a package removal.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --scope \fI<user|system>\fR
Set the logging scope. The 'system' scope requires administrative privileges. Defaults to 'user'.
.TP
.B --format \fI<json|toml>\fR
(For export) Set the output format. Defaults to 'json'.
.TP
.B --name \fI<text>\fR
(For query) Filter log by package name (case-insensitive contains).
.TP
.B --manager \fI<text>\fR
(For query) Filter log by package manager (e.g., dnf, apt).
.TP
.B --days \fI<integer>\fR
(For query) Filter log to entries within the last N days.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show a help message for a command and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show the version and exit.

.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.TP
Check the status for the current user:
.RS
.B prez-pkglog status --scope user
.RE
.TP
Export the system-wide log as TOML:
.RS
.B sudo prez-pkglog export --scope system --format toml
.RE
.TP
Find all packages with 'nvim' in the name installed in the last 30 days:
.RS
.B prez-pkglog query --name nvim --days 30
.RE
.TP
Manually log the installation of 'my-app' from a git clone:
.RS
.B prez-pkglog install my-app git
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.config/prez-pkglog/prez_pkglog.conf\fR
User-specific configuration file.
.TP
\fB/etc/prez-pkglog/prez_pkglog.conf\fR
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
\fB~/.local/share/prez-pkglog/\fR
Directory for user-specific log files (packages.json, packages.toml).
.TP
\fB/var/log/prez-pkglog/\fR
Directory for system-wide log files.

.SH AUTHOR
Prez <154857421+P-R-E-Z@users.noreply.github.com>

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at: \fIhttps://github.com/P-R-E-Z/prez-pkglog/issues\fR
